---
layout: post
title: Ubuntu创建根文件系统
tags: [ubuntu,filesystem]
comments: true
---

# [RootfsFromScratch](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/RootfsFromScratch)
This page describes building an armel Debian/Ubuntu root filesystem.  It's only from scratch in that you are not starting from installer images, and you don't need target hardware to build it; the code is not rebuilt though, pre-build .deb packages are downloaded and installed instead.
`这个页面描述了如何构建一个armel Debian/Ubuntu根文件系统。它只是从零开始，因为你不是从安装程序映像开始，你不需要目标硬件来构建它;代码没有重新生成，而是下载并安装预编译的.deb包。`

## Using rootstock
Simplest and recommended way, just run rootstock to create your rootfs (check [ARM/RootStock](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ARM/RootStock) for more info about rootstock).
`最简单和推荐的方法，只要运行rootstock来创建您的rootfs`

[Rootstock](https://launchpad.net/project-rootstock/) will automate the creation of a rootfs tarball and exposes some config options to tweak the contents/setup.
`Rootstock将自动创建一个rootfs压缩包，并公开一些配置选项来调整内容/设置。`

If you're running Ubuntu 9.10 (karmic) or later, you just need to install the rootstock package and it will pull the appropriate dependencies.
`如果你正在运行Ubuntu 9.10 (karmic)或更高版本，你只需要安装rootstock包，它就会拉出相应的依赖项。`

If you install rootstock manually or if you are running it from a bzr checkout, you will also need:
`如果你手动安装rootstock或如果你运行它从一个bzr签出，你还需要:`
* qemu (see [Installation/QemuEmulator](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Installation/QemuEmulator) )
* a recent debootstrap: [debootstrap_1.0.10ubuntu3_all.deb or newer](http://ports.ubuntu.com/pool/main/d/debootstrap/)

**Please note**: rootstock **will not** automatically give you a kernel package. You will have to include the kernel package you need for your hardware. For instance, for OMAP3 based hardware, you will need to include "--seed linux-image-omap" somewhere in your rootstock command.
`请注意:rootstock不会自动给你一个内核包。您必须包含硬件所需的内核包。例如，对于基于OMAP3的硬件，您需要在rootstock命令的某处包含“——seed linux-image-omap”。`

To create an armel rootfs tarball of, for instance, xubuntu-desktop:
`创建一个armel rootfs 压缩包，例如，xubuntu-desktop:`
```
sudo rootstock \
    --fqdn myhostname \
    --login ubuntu \
    --password temppwd \
    --imagesize 2G \
    --seed xubuntu-desktop
```
Here's another example for ubuntu-desktop:
`这是另一个ubuntu桌面的例子:`
```
sudo rootstock \
    --fqdn ubuntu \
    --login ubuntu \
    --password ubuntu \
    --imagesize 3G \
    --seed ubuntu-desktop
```

Some typical flags when developing headless (connecting over the network):
`developing headless时的一些典型标志(通过网络连接):`
```
--seed build-essential,openssh-server
```
Note that you should edit /etc/network/interfaces and set up your network device on first login for this.
`注意，您应该在第一次登录时编辑/etc/network/interfaces并为此设置网络设备。`

If you want a really light desktop (lxde), use:
`如果你想要一个非常轻的桌面(lxde)，使用:`
```
--seed lxde,gdm
```
The options --fqdn (or -f), --login (or -l) and --password (-p) are required for the initial setup. Calling the script with --help shows you all the additional options that can be used to change the setup of the created rootfs.
`初始设置需要选择——fqdn(或-f)、——login(或-l)和——password(或-p)。使用——help调用脚本，将显示可以用于更改所创建的rootfs设置的所有附加选项。`

> Change the password on the first login!  The above examples use too simple passwords and will expose the password to other users of the machine where rootstock is run.`第一次登录时请更改密码!上面的示例使用的密码过于简单，并且将向运行rootstock的机器的其他用户公开密码。`

## Building a root filesystem image instead of a tarball

In case you just need a root filesystem for use with qemu and you don't want a rootfs tarball, e.g. for usage with qemu, pass --notarball to rootstock:
`如果你只需要一个根文件系统用于qemu，你不想要一个rootfs tarball，例如，用于qemu，传递——notarball到rootstock:`
```
sudo rootstock --fqdn qemu-test \
    --login qemu \
    --password qemupwd \
    --notarball
```
You can also create a root filesystem from a tarball as follows:
`您还可以从tarball创建根文件系统，如下所示:`

Create the blank image file using dd; this example creates a 1GB image; use seek=3072 for 3GB or seek=2048 for 2GB etc.:
`使用dd创建空白图像文件;这个例子创建了一个1GB的图像;使用seek=3072对3GB或seek=2048对2GB等:`
```
dd if=/dev/zero of=ubuntu-arm.img bs=1MB count=0 seek=1024
```
Create linux filesystem on the newly created image:
`在新创建的映像上创建linux文件系统:`
```
mkfs.ext4 -F ubuntu-arm.img
```
(You might want to pass some extra flags to mkfs to tweak the reserved blocks, labels, or other filesystem options.)
`(您可能希望向mkfs传递一些额外的标志，以调整保留的块、标签或其他文件系统选项。)`

Loop mount the new image:
`循环挂载新镜像:`
```
sudo mount -o loop ubuntu-arm.img /mnt
```
Extract the rootfs tarball inside the mounted dir and umount:
`在加载的dir和umount中提取rootfs压缩包:`
```
sudo tar -C /mnt -zxf armel-rootfs-200904151837.tgz
sudo umount /mnt
```
Now you are set and ready to use the ubuntu-arm.img, see "Using a qemu image" below for the right command
`现在已经设置好了，可以使用ubuntu-arm了。请参阅下面的“使用qemu映像”以获得正确的命令`
## Using a qemu image with full emulation
If you created your qemu image and want to start a fully emulated work environment (to compile packages or build applications), grab the kernel from:

[qemu kernel](http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/dists/lucid/main/installer-armel/current/images/versatile/netboot/vmlinuz)
```
 wget http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/dists/lucid/main/installer-armel/current/images/versatile/netboot/vmlinuz
```
and start qemu with the following command (indeed, you need to adjust the rootfs img name to whatever your image is called)
```
qemu-system-arm -M versatilepb -cpu cortex-a8 -kernel ./vmlinuz -hda arm-rootfs.img -m 256 -append "root=/dev/sda mem=256M devtmpfs.mount=0 rw"
```
In the booted image you can then log in with the user and password you defined during image creation.
> To be able to copy files from or to the host system it is helpful to install openssh-server on the host and use the scp command inside qemu.
## Connect your emulated machine to a real network
When no option is specified QEMU uses a non privileged user mode network stack that gives the emulated machine access to the world. But you probably want to make your emulated machine accessible from the outside. It is possible by using the tap mode and bridging the tap interface with the network interface of the host machine.

The first thing to do is to active a bridge on your host machine. For that you have to modify the /etc/network/interfaces file as follow:

Before:
```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```
After:
```
auto br0
iface br0 inet dhcp
  bridge_ports eth0
  bridge_maxwait 0
```
Then you need to install the bridge-utils package and restart your network interface:
```
# apt-get install bridge-utils
# ifdown eth0
# ifup br0
```
Create a script call /etc/qemu-ifup that will be executed upon the start of QEMU:
```
#!/bin/sh
echo "Executing /etc/qemu-ifup"
echo "Bringing up $1 for bridged mode..."
sudo /sbin/ifconfig $1 0.0.0.0 promisc up
echo "Adding $1 to br0..."
sudo /usr/sbin/brctl addif br0 $1
sleep 2
```
As you probably don't want to execute QEMU as root, you need to create a qemu user group and authorize the brctl and ifconfig commands for users of the qemu via sudo. You need to add the following lines to /etc/sudoers (edit the file using visudo):
```
...
Cmnd_Alias QEMU = /usr/sbin/brctl, /sbin/ifconfig
%qemu ALL=NOPASSWD: QEMU
```
Tap networking requires that the tun module is loaded:
```
$ sudo modprobe tun
```
To load it automatically on boot, edit /etc/modules and add a line that says "tun" so that the file looks like this:
```
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

lp
tun
```
Finally you can start your emulated machine using the following command
```
$ qemu-system-arm -M versatilepb -kernel ./vmlinuz-2.6.28-versatile -hda arm-rootfs.img -m 256 -append "root=/dev/sda mem=256M ro" -net nic,macaddr=00:16:3e:00:00:01 -net tap
```
You don't need to give a MAC address if you are emulating only one machine, as QEMU will use a default one. However if you have more than one emulated machine (don't forget QEMU can also emulate other architectures than ARM), you will have to specify a unique MAC address for each machine. I advise you to select an address from the range 00:16:3e:xx:xx:xx, which has been assigned to Xen.
## Using qemu user mode emulation (with chroot) 
If you don't want to use qemu with full emulation, you can still use qemu, but with user mode emulation together with chroot, to create the emulated work environment (to compile packages or build applications).

First extract the rootfs tarball:
```
mkdir /tmp/rootfs
sudo tar -C /tmp/rootfs -zxf armel-rootfs-200904151837.tgz
```
Copy qemu-arm-static to the rootfs, in order to be able to use qemu:
```
sudo cp $(which qemu-arm-static) /tmp/rootfs/usr/bin/
```
Mount the /proc filesystem:
```
sudo mount -t proc proc /tmp/rootfs/proc
```
Set up resolv.conf:
```
sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /tmp/rootfs/etc/resolv.conf
```
And finally get inside the emulated environment, with chroot:
```
sudo chroot /tmp/rootfs /bin/bash
```
Now you can easily install packages with apt-get and build the application you need/want.
## Download a pre-built image
There is a pre-built image of karmic avaliable. It was built following steps above.

It contains some stuff to compile and run software, such as gcc, g++, X libraries, FLTK, sqlite3, but there is no WM. You can add software using apt-get, if you want.

You can use this image with Qemu or chroot.

There is a little script inside the tarball to start Qemu without typing the entire command.
```
wget -c http://w3.impa.br/~gabrield/data/ubuntu-arm-development-rootfs.tar.bz2
tar jxfv ubuntu-arm-development-rootfs.tar.bz2
chmod +x run.sh
./run.sh
```
The user to login is '''ubuntu''' and password '''temppwd'''.
## Bugs and Problems
If you run into any problems with the rootstock script, please contact "ogra" or "rsalveti" in #ubuntu-arm on irc.freenode.net or send a mail to ogra@ubuntu.com / ricardo.salveti@ubuntu.com.

If you run into an error '''please keep the log''' of your failed build.

A known issue is that language-pack handling is not implemented yet, please install the packages for your language manually post install.
